- [Instructor] Git can open many doors for your team
because it's interoperable with many software development
tools that enable automation and it allows
for processes to be established
that dictate your team's operations.
The automated tooling and workflows surrounding Git
put your team on the doorstep
of embracing highly effective DevOps practices.
We're going to spend some time discussing DevOps concepts
and how your team can embrace them after implementing
the recommendations in this course.
First, let's talk about traditional development
and operations practices before DevOps is introduced.
Prior to DevOps, standard software development practices
separate the teams who develop the software from those
who deployed and operated it.
This division created various obstacles
that impeded the success of IT solutions.
First, the software development
and operations teams were often located in different parts
of the organization, under different leadership,
and often separated geographically.
These factors often cause disfunction between the two teams,
to the dismay of their customers.
Finger-pointing and sour relationships were often
the product of traditional software development practices.
The concept of DevOps was introduced
to remedy some of the cultural, organizational,
and process related challenges
that kept projects from succeeding.
DevOps removed development and operation teams
from their silos, placing them in the same team
and geographic location.
This built a more cohesive unit focused on a collaborative
approach to creating and hosting software.
DevOps heavily embraces tooling
to automate software development tasks
such as builds, tests, and deployments.
Continuous integration and delivery is a must
for organizations looking to practice DevOps.
Automation creates standardized processes
that are executed without deviation.
In addition to continuous integration,
DevOps assumes teams have already embraced an Agile
software development methodology.
The combination of cultural changes, process changes,
and the introduction of automated tooling provide a climate
where high-quality software can be delivered more rapidly.
Teams are able to be more responsive
to customer demands thanks to the tenets put in place
by DevOps.
So, let's quickly review what you have
to have in place before adopting DevOps practices.
Your team should have an Agile methodology in place,
such as Scrum, XP, or Lean.
Without a base methodology or development process,
it's unlikely that your team can establish a DevOps culture.
Your team should also have a CI/CD pipeline in place
that uses a tool set to automate common
software development tasks, such as builds, tests,
and deployments.
We've seen how to do that with GitLab.
Finally, there should be a willingness from both teams
and organizational leaders to change.
Instilling DevOps practices requires some
organizational transformation,
so it's important to have a champion in your organization
that can push for the changes you'll need to make.
Once these building block are in place,
your team will have the right foundation
to push beyond Agile and automation
to the optimized state delivered by DevOps.
Now, let's go over a simple plan
for adopting a DevOps approach to software development.
The first place to start is with the culture.
It's critical to your success.
Culture change is really the core concept behind DevOps,
so you'll need to ensure that leadership
and the development and operation teams are supportive
of the changes.
Next, reorient the teams.
I use the term reorient loosely
because it's somewhat abstract.
This could mean reorganizing, relocating, recomposing,
or retooling the team.
Basically, silos need to be destroyed
and the walls that prevent good communication need
to be torn down.
This can be done via a variety of ways,
but ultimately, you want to make sure a single team
has the appropriate people, skillsets,
and lines of communication to support both development
and operations.
Ideally, the team should fall under one manager
so they have a single line of authority.
The manager can then influence the activities
of everyone involved.
Central management can also establish shared goals
for the teams that puts everyone heading
in the same direction.
Next, look at joining the processes used
by the newly oriented team to ensure they will work
under the new paradigm.
Ideally, the shared process should be centered around rapid
and flexible delivery of small units of work.
This is another principle of Agile.
Once established, look at the process
for the weakest points.
Basically, parts of the process that require manual tasks
to be performed should be targeted
and replaced with automation.
Then start looking at your existing tool set
to determine if it can remedy the weak spots
in your process.
If a particular tool is not available
in the existing tool set, the teams should jointly
identify a new tool that can automate
the manual work performed.
After identifying the tool, spend some time learning
to use it before putting it in place.
There's a lot of information available regarding tool sets
that can support the various stages of DevOps processes.
Luckily for you, you've already invested the time
in learning one of the most common tools
found in DevOps environments, and that's Git.
Armed with this information and your knowledge
of how teams can collaborate with Git,
you'll be able to establish DevOps practices
that allow your team to deliver code faster
and more reliably.